# Java JVM

Using java 8 to implement a simple Java Virtual Machine 8.

Interpreter Mode.

Code has no high performance, just remain as well as readable.

For learning Java Virtual Machine.

# Start from an example of running a java program

## What happened when we type java in terminal?

Mostly, you run own java program like follow

```shell
java -jar java-program-package.jar
```

Before use command above, one needs to set up System Environment of **Java Runtime Environment**, like `JAVA_HOME`，`PATH`, otherwise the terminal would show like follow

```shell
-bash: java: command not found
```

After setting up System Environment well, we have a Java Runtime Environment to run your java program.

Actually, the command input **java** is a program, mostly compiled by C/C++, i.e it is a runnable program write in C/C++ programming language Like [openjdk](http://openjdk.java.net/).

## How java knows where is our main function?

### A simple class

When we write a *hello, world* program like follow

```java
public class Main {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        System.out.println("Hello, world!");
    }
}
```

And save it as file **Main.java**, then type some command  in terminal

```shell
javac Main.java
java Main
```

We will get some output like that

```shell
Hello, world!
```

Because java **promise** that it will run our program start with a `main` function. It is a tradition.

But just waiting, how java know where is `main` function? 

The answer is obvious, `java Main`, we tell it that our class name `Main`, so java virtual machine will start from `Main` class, load `Main` class, then find a `main` function in `Main` class.

### But when it is a package?

Well, let's take a look in `xxx.jar` file. The directory like follow:

```
xxx.jar
----META-INF
	----MANIFEST.MF
	----maven
		...
----...
	...
```

When you package your program with `maven`, you will get jar file structure like above.

Just open the file `META-INF/MANIFEST.MF`, the content like follow(a spring boot package)

```
Manifest-Version: 1.0
Implementation-Title: demo-bind
Implementation-Version: 0.0.1-SNAPSHOT
Start-Class: com.example.demobind.DemoBindApplication
Spring-Boot-Classes: BOOT-INF/classes/
Spring-Boot-Lib: BOOT-INF/lib/
Build-Jdk-Spec: 1.8
Spring-Boot-Version: 2.1.11.RELEASE
Created-By: Maven Archiver 3.4.0
Main-Class: org.springframework.boot.loader.JarLauncher
```

There is one line

```
Main-Class: org.springframework.boot.loader.JarLauncher
```

the `Main-Class` is the started location for JVM!!! It tells JVM running program from here.

## How JVM load a Object class ?

We know that all class inherits from **Object** class, but where is it? Is it generated by JVM? 

On *jre* directory, there is a jar file `rt.jar` under `lib` directory.  `JRE_HOME/lib/rt.jar`.

Just open it, you will find a `Object.class` file under folder `java/lang`.

Not only **Object** class, there are also many classes in `rt.jar` file, like **String, List, Set**..

# Reference

[java specification](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/specs/)

[自己动手写Java虚拟机](https://book.douban.com/subject/26802084/)


